# Weightlifting Nationals

Participation at USA Weightlifting Nationals by State 2014-2019.

My topic will now be athlete participation in USA Weightlifting (USAW) National Championship by state, from 2014-2019.  It will be a choropleth map by state, showing the number of weightlifters registered to a club in each state that competed at National Championships for the past 6 years.  A possible title for this is “Where are the Strongest Weightlifters in America From?: The Number of Athletes Attending USAW National Championships Representing each State from 2014-2019.”  The objective of this map is to show the incredible growth of USAW over the past 5 years, and to compare the states’ participation at nationals over time. 

The audience of this map is primarily the governing body (USAW), and club coaches, both of whom are moderately familiar with using different techniques to visualize data and are interested in spatial patterns in the growth of the sport.  This is the primary scenario this map would be used: The National Governing Body of Weightlifting in the US, USAW, has used the success of CrossFit to market their sport and try to draw in new lifters.  They’ve conducted targeted recruiting efforts at certain colleges and are interested in knowing more about what regions have been increasing the fastest, to analyze if what they are doing is working, and identify potential areas for additional recruitment efforts. 

The data for 2019 for this map is coming from [USA Weightlifting](https://www.teamusa.org/USA-Weightlifting/Events/2019/May/09/National-Championships).  Each year has its own page with data that lists every athlete and the club they are registered to.  On their [webpoint page](https://webpoint.usaweightlifting.org/wp15/Companies/Clubs.wp) is a list of every club and they’re address (with state), so I will be combining the 6 years’ worth of start lists together and then adding the state attribute from the club/state listing.  

The data will be represented as a choropleth by state.  Content requirements for this include a GeoJSON or TopoJSON of states, to provide the state spatial data to parse the CSV I will be using for the quantitative data.   The total amount of lifters per state, total overall, and possibly a roster of lifters by state will be available to the user.  The data will be displayed on a leaflet basemap, and buttons will allow the user to toggle between years.  I will at a minimum be storing the state data as a GeoJSON and the quantitative data as a flat csv file.  I plan on using Leaflet for the basemap, and the D3 JS library to parse and load the data.  I will be using a Skeleton CSS boilerplate and hosting it on GitHub pages. 
